+++
ingame_date = "1275-2-9"
journal_id = "1"
slug = "on-the-fall-of-the-western-kalassarian-empire-and-the-formation-of-the-pre-apgarian-kingdoms"
title = "On the Fall of the Western Kalassarian Empire and the Formation of the Pre-Apgarian Kingdoms"
[taxonomies]
character_id = ["6"]
journal_type = ["excerpt"]
location_id = ["36"]

+++

Apgar is well-known to be the first collection of states that have independently, by universal suffrage, selected individuals to enact their will in a representative government. There was a time when the eminent \[location:10\] was not even possible in the imaginations of its constituents' ancestors. Each of the components states were kingdoms, formed in the twilight of the Great Kalassarian Empire. In the intravening years between the \[event:59\] in 466 and the \[event:60|first\] of the three Apgarian Revolutions in 976, these kingdoms formed, clashed, dissolved and subsumed each other, and shaped world events in their own right. Most well-known by most lovers of history are the \[event:62|First\] and \[event:63|Second\] Anasaian-Estregan Wars, which saw the \[location:12|Kingdom of Poasah\] become a nation of great influence in the Beteran political zeitgeist.

It is of great interest then, to see how these kingdoms have formed as the Kalassar crumbled from internal and external pressures. This article does not aim to be an exhaustive treatise into the minutia of of every dynamic that led to the present day situation of these entities, however, The aim is to provide an introduction for the layman and the freshman into the wonderful, perplexing and intriguing intricacies of this portion of history.

### The Whys and Hows of the Fall of the Kalassarian Empire

Most historians mark the year 466 as the line in the proverbial sand for the Western Kalassarian Empire. That line in the sands of time goes directly through the \[event:64\] by the Ahurians under \[character:65\]'s banner on the day of the 965th anniversary of its foundation. This date may have been a keystone event in the dissolution of West Kalassar, but it is by no means its true end. Even after the City Everlasting saw its last, the Imperial bureaucracy was still keeping the various western dioceses running, albeit in a sickly state compared to the Empire's heyday.The fact that it was razed so quickly and so completely does highlight clues that would help solve the mystery of the Great Empire's demise.  

The Kalassarian military, whose claim to fame was to always be present and battle-ready in every battlefield anywhere in the known limits of the world, failed to return to the place of its birth at its most dire moment. In fact, during this period in history, they seem to have lost the legendary ability all of a sudden. For course, they were fighting in multiple fronts at the time: In the Potol region east of Poasah, the \[race:66\] were constantly raiding and pillaging the villages. In Hapgaria, they were quelling the \[event:67\]. Even elsewhere in the Mirian Peninsula, General Brutallus was breaking the siege at Saray, There were many times when they fought multi-front wars and were able to secure the capital still, but perhaps they no longer had the same capacity to field soldiers? This was, and remains, the most popular view in academia. I myself was of the persuasion until evidence of an alternative view was presented by Head of the Department of Extrahuman Abilities in the \[location:56\], Professor \[character:68\]. 

She, and her excellent students have demonstrated to me, a piece of technology that the Kalassarian military may have used to perform extraordinary feats of logistics. Something they once called \[family:70|Pise\] manor, to one they have discovered in a newly unearthed ruins in \[location:14\]. In the same hour, I was in one of my lecture halls in the university, and I was drinking chocolate in a Mehicanian salon! The Circle discovered in Mehicania was massive. It was exactly 400 yards in diameter--enough to transport an entire battalion of centurions in an single instant! Professor Zafira has an excellent publication on the subject \[journal:71\] for those interested. It offers a complete recontextualization of this portion of history, and details their research methodology.  

Research by the Department of Extra-human Abilities indicate that the mystical ability called the _Ritma_. which was required to trigger the transport, gradually faded away. It was not for the lack of trying, however. Some global event seemed to have slowly cause it to recede--either a natural phenomenon, or a cultural one.  From estimates in their preliminary studies, the decline began at the tail end of the 3rd century, and use of the Ritma disappeared entirely by the time Kalassus was burned to the ground. It is my view that this was not a coincidence. If the Ritma was gone by then, the ability of the Kalassarian Empire to transport large portions of the army and the necessary supplies across the continent, fighting a three front war became untenable. The fact that they even attempted just showed that they have taken all of this for granted, and when it disappeared when they did meant that they did not have the strategic and logistical capacity to consider alternatives. This went with a range of other industries as well. in the 5th century, we saw systemic failures in different aspects of imperial management. Radial roads within regions were still relatively well-maintained, inter-region byways were in a state of disrepair that would be unacceptable, even in today's fraught political climate.Transportation issues also shed some light in the sudden breakdown of imperial bureaucracy. Once, theirs was the model of bureaucratic efficiency, where even the fringes of the empire were served with a speed even Ahuria in its golden age could not match. Agricultural yields were the lowest even compared to the days of the Old Republic of the Kalassus as well. The classical explanation of the decreased crop yields were climate shifts that also prompted the movement of the northern tribes like the \[race:66\]. While this is definitely very plausible, and in fact corroborated elsewhere in the world, past records of climate variation did not correlate with variation in crop yield. This might indicate that crop yields used to be bolstered by Ritma. How this was managed, however, is an area of active research as of this publication.  

So we see some of the most crucial, but non-exhaustive, _whys_ quite clearly. Especially when compared with the Kalassar during its golden age:

*   Military efficiency was greatly impeded due to new logistical, intelligence and strategic constraints, which made the empire vulnerable to external threats.  
    
*   Bureaucratic mechanisms stagnated in the best-case, bottle-necked in the average-case, and deadlocked in the worst-case, which likely have caused, systematized, and extenuated the documented instances of institutionalized corruption in many localized regions.  
    
*   Agricultural capacity was much lower than the needs of the population, which caused widespread unrest, which in turn resulted in many instances of revolt, especially in the most underserved dioceses.

Even without the additional context that the Ritma offers, these _whys_ and their interrelated network effects already greatly explain the issues that the Kalassar faced. They even explain the pattern in which the early feudal states began to fragment away from its bipartite, but still somewhat central authority. The additional context of the Ritma explains _how_ _fast_ the decline and collapse of the Western Kalassarian Empire occurred, and the nature of the feudal system that had arisen from its wake. For example, the collapse of authority in the Southern Poasan diocese during the \[event:75\] was particularly quick, due to the lack of military manpower in the area, due to the earlier deployment of these armies in the northern front against the \[race:66\]. This necessitated the fortification of mountain villages into mountaintop castles and garrisons in the \[location:76\] and \[location:77\] mountain ranges, which were difficult to near impossible for the Ahurian siege engines to approach.

Meanwhile in Hapgaria, \[location:86\] was in open \[event:67|rebellion\] due to a dwindling economy and a multi-year famine, but other parts of Hapgaria, like \[location:17\] and \[location:87\] were relatively stable until the 450s due to their proximity to the sea. Across the channel, \[location:13\] acted autonomously, with governmental functions running relatively smoothly almost the entire time, only declaring itself a kingdom in its own right months after Kalassus was razed, when the \[location:88\] was taken by the Tandoor.

### The Baraonian Rebellion

Known as the Bread-basket of the West, Baraon was critically-important to the food supply of the western half of the empire. Grain and other staple foods, such as potatoes, beets and lentils. The wide plains and mostly consistent weather, and easy access to aquifers from the Repa and Tarpa mountains make it usually give rise to the region's very favorable farming conditions. But in the early 400s, the Baraon region, which not only included most of the present-day state of Baraon, but extended northward to most of today's southern \[location:185\], southward to most of \[location:186\] and eastward to the entirety of \[location:183\], was hit by a series of droughts and crop failures. At the same time, the \[event:75\] cut-off the region from supplies from the eastern parts of the empire. Famine and disease soon followed. People were miserable, disheartened, and most importantly, angry. Angry at the rich administrators of Baraon, who have been callously flouting personal supplies and goods from overseas trade partners by holding lavish parties among themselves while the rest of the populace starved.

Sporadic uprisings among the peasantry began springing up near the fringes of the region. Most of them, however, was put down quite handily, since the legions were still in the pay of the administration. As the famine and the war extended beyond a decade, additional taxes were being levied against the merchants and the larger landowners. It doesn't take much imagination that they did not take this lying still. A consortium of these merchants and landowners began pooling their resources together in order to hire mercenaries to lead the rebellion.

In the year 440, rumblings that even the legions were no longer satisfied with the way things are going. Yes, they were being paid, but Kalassarian coinage didn't mean much when there wasn't much to buy at all. The famine, in combination to the reduced mobility caused by the Ahurian assaults and raids in Central Kalassar and the Posaran Sea, respectively, and perhaps the disappearance of the ability to teleport, made them quite unhappy with the mismanagement of the region. So when the commander of the legions, [Parpelissus Brutallus](#) heard of the merchant consortium, he took the job and planned the rebellion.

Nonnus Andrenicus, the governor of Baraon, was able to raise an army of [Sarmatian](#) mercenaries with a payment of a 200 gold tribute, and a promise to allow them to settle in the area. The ensuing battle was brutal, and saw a large number of casualties on either side. Ultimately, the rebellion was a success, and was a catalyst for many more rebellions against Kalassarian authorities in the region. The food stores from the previous administration was not enough to sustain the population for long, however, but to Brutallus' credit, they were distributed to the populace at a somewhat orderly manner. Officers of the legion were given lands according to their merits in battle, and their staff were allowed to till the fields with tubers and other similarly hardy root crops. The Sarmatians who fought for Andernicus were convinced to stand down by being offered commissions in the legions, parceled out and separated across the different Baraonian lands. The famine was still an issue, and so exports of food items and fertilizer were forbidden by decree of the new king. This allowed for domestic food stores to be barely enough for the population. Disease and death by hunger were still a daily occurrence though reportedly alleviated. The former, however, was managed by setting up quarantine colonies separated from the rest of the general populace. They were often staffed by Divine Masochist laypersons who had volunteered to care for the sick. 

### Aftermath

The immediate aftermath of the Baraonian rebellion was the separation of the other Hapgarian regions from the rest of the Kalassar. The most accessible passes to Central Kalassar were no longer available, after Parpelissus forcibly closed the borders. Sea routes in the south were blockaded by the well-equipped Ahurian navies. Mountain ranges that peppered the northern coasts of Central Kalassar forced sea routes through the pirate-infested Menean Sea to get to connect with \[location:188\] in the Poasan region. In the immediate decades hence, the northern Hapgarian regions kept the facade of being a part of the Kalassar still, with positions and institutions named similarly, their functions slowly drifted to meet different demands of each locality. Further internal and external pressures would then fracture even these hollow shells eventually and would further fragment into the other Apgarian Kingdoms. Once the dust settles from the tumult of the 5th century, the map of Betera would shift one step closer to the world we know and understand. The western portion of the Kalassar, was no more in all but name--those vestigial institutions in northern Hapgaria were no longer truly under the thumb of the Kalassarian Emperor in Bastion though they remain.
