+++
ingame_date = ""
journal_id = "6"
slug = "sea-hags-20221015"
title = "Sea Hags: 2022/10/15"

+++

Meeting of the Four, Part 2
---------------------------

The meeting between the \[organisation:171\] and the Rozenmaiden reconvened in \[location:97\]'s  abandoned old town hall. Magic users have secured the area, and had made the space workable for such short notice.

During the meeting, which primarily discussed what was to be done with \[character:277\] and the \[organisation:279\], \[character:225\], who was introduced to the rest of those present as Maryanne--an alias she uses while in her \[note:290\] had revealed here \[note:291\], and thus revealing that she was a vampire. surprising everyone, including her own crew mates. This had almost undermined the potential peace, as \[character:170|Rosemunda\] nad suspected (correctly) that "Maryanne", and by extension, the Rozenmaiden had something to do with the attacks on her magical human trafficking "harvest". It took all of Minfilia's efforts, under her disguise as Sofia. to convince Rosemunda that she is, instead, a succubus and that she would have her collaborator \[character:292\] confirm.

They also discussed the potential issues with the \[organisation:286\], and their liaison in Port Rainoso \[character:293\]. \[character:73|Hedwig\] had indicated that the man had refused efforts to have him commit to an embargo on all trade activities with the \[organisation:102\]. \[character:270|Renault\] had mentioned that their position in trade would disallow them of that, especially in \[location:34\] where the religion has become a state-recognized religion. Still, they wished to confirm whether or not Justus may be swayed in the other direction. In order to do so, they had concluded that perhaps an auction of \[character:294\]-smithed armors and memorabilia may lure him into an intervention where he can be persuaded to change his position.

Narmaya had indicated that she had personally met Riche, and had found him to have fallen into hubris in his latter days, and that they were in possession of his last journal. This intrigued Renault, admitting that he was an amateur historian, and had collected artifacts from the \[event:62\]. His most prized item was a ceremonial blade owned by the Anasaian general \[character:295\], who was a close friend to \[character:225\], and was her mentor in the blade. Very eager to confirm whether or not the aforementioned weapon was indeed the one owned by her friend, she accepted.

The agenda agreed upon by the meeting were as follows:

*   Each faction was to find and surveil the members of the Free Theater
    *   Oliver Savoy and the Bouillards were to do so for Oscar Savoy and Alfred
*   An auction of Riche armor and paraphernalia was to be held at a Parvese House of Pleasures, Justus was to be invited
*   That representatives of each faction was to meet every few days to share information, and discuss refinements to strategy.

Renault's Sanctum
-----------------

Hedwig told Renault and Oliver that Oscar was under their supervision and directives.

Renault discussed his son, and his son's condition of magic-induced narcolepsy. Pecorine surmises that Daniel may be a cleric of Dreams.

Narmaya had confirmed the legitimacy of the sword. Renault had given it to the current Bartholomew Strandiz.

  

Minfilia and Sensodyne vs the \[family:177\]
--------------------------------------------

Minfilia invited Sensodyne over at the Parvese's main house to "enlist" her into the group in order to cement Rosemunda's trust in her. 

Sensodyne immediately disliked Rosemunda's lust for power and eternity, and so she had feigned submission to her goals.

Minfilia's Left Eye
-------------------

Minfilia promised her left eye to Justin Long ,blind laundry-man of teh Rozenmaiden, if he learned to fight in a week.
