+++
ingame_date = ""
journal_id = "5"
slug = "sea-hags-20221001"
title = "Sea Hags: 2022/10/01"
[taxonomies]
journal_type = ["session"]

+++

Meeting of the Four Pillars
---------------------------

[Rosemunda Parvèse](https://campaigns.home.thekennel.info/en-US/campaign/1/notes/9/edit#)  called for a [Meeting of the Four](https://campaigns.home.thekennel.info/en-US/campaign/1/notes/9/edit#) a the behest of [Minfilia Diaz](https://campaigns.home.thekennel.info/en-US/campaign/1/notes/9/edit#) as a condition in their \[family:174|Machado\] estate.

The activities of the \[organisation:279\] in \[location:98\] Including, but not limited to their involvement with:

*   Apgarian Military
*   Mehicanian Military
*   Monsignor Leonidas
*   The ills of making deals and working with the \[organisation:102\].

The meeting place was set at lunch time in the famous restaurant \[location:280\], in \[location:97\]'s Main Street. The entire place was closed to the public in such short notice, as it was agreed upon only at 7 in the morning of the same day.

### Order of Arrival

First to arrive was the group with \[character:139\]:

*   \[character:73\]
*   \[character:113\]
*   \[character:225\]

Next was \[character:170\]'s group

*   \[character:121\]
*   \[character:231\]
*   \[character:281\]

The \[family:174\] family, under the titular leadership of the deceased \[character:169\], had violently rejected \[character:170|Parvèse\]'s invitation: the messenger was physically assaulted, carried and thrown outside the premises of \[location:278\]. As it was not expected that either \[character:277\], \[character:169\] or \[character:266\] would appear, it was discussed by the officers of the \[organisation:110\] whether or not \[character:268\] might come to represent the Machado family. He was non-committal , due to his traumatic experiences in the past. 

He did eventually decide to arrive at the meeting, where he brought compatriots from \[organisation:83\], including fellow Rozenmaiden crewmate \[character:282\].

Finally, the leader of the \[family:175\] group, \[character:270\] arrived with \[character:283\], his personal bodyguard and assistant.

During a break from the discussions within the meeting, an attempt to bomb the venue had been thwarted by \[character:284\] and \[character:285\].

### Who is Benoit Marconne?

\[character:232\] is an employee of the \[organisation:230\] in Miller Street. Rosemunda brought him along supposedly as a reward for a job well-done. He had fully intended to enjoy the entire experience, so he joined the Chicken Chase game. There he met \[character:284\], who so enamored him, he made a bet with her. If he won, he would take her to dinner the next day--otherwise, at her request, he would meet her for lunch wearing a chinchilla costume. Either way, he would meet her outside the House of Pleasures, so he considered either a win, minor embarrasment nonwithstanding. He lost of course, and so he went to meet with her and \[character:285\].

They had found that Benoit is a normal boy who just wants to experience what life was like outside the House of Pleasures. He'd like to meet new people who were not paying customers, but people who had a genuine interest in friendship. It seemed to the pair, that Rosemunda was monitoring almost his every movement, and that he was being repressed, but he was almost absolute in his graciousness towards his "savior". So they thought to invite him to the \[organisation:286\] Fight Night--there, they plan to tell him about Rosemunda's plan to take over his body.
